Modularization concept (#666)
kyma-project/community: concepts/modularization/README.md

- Operator CRD (contains mainly overrides that can be set by customer or SRE for component installation)
- Operator deployment (yaml/helm to deploy component operator)
- Operator image (docker image in gcr)
- Component CRDs ([installation/resources/crds](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/main/installation/resources/crds))
- Component deployment ([resources](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/main/resources))
- Component images (docker images in gcr)

Versioning of component resources could be achieved by packaging component CRDs and charts into component operator binary (or container image). This way released operator would contain CRDs and charts of its components in the local filesystem. 
The image could be signed and we can ensure the integrity of component deployment easily. 

![](assets/modularization.drawio.svg)

## Example

If we migrate the eventing component to the proposed structure it would look like this:

> - github.com/kyma-project/eventing-operator repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `github.com/kyma-project/eventing-operator` repository
```

>     - charts (copied from kyma/resources/eventing)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - charts (copied from `kyma/resources/eventing`)
```

    - crds (copied from kyma/installation/resources

>     - operator source code (inspired by kyma-incubator/reconciler/pkg/reconciler/instances/eventing importing kyma-project/manifest-operator-lib to do the common tasks like rendering and deploying charts)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - operator source code (inspired by `kyma-incubator/reconciler/pkg/reconciler/instances/eventing` importing `kyma-project/manifest-operator-lib` to do the common tasks like rendering and deploying charts)
```

> - github.com/kyma-project/eventing-controller repository (moved from kyma/components/eventing-controller)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `github.com/kyma-project/eventing-controller` repository (moved from `kyma/components/eventing-controller`)
```

> - github.com/kyma-project/event-publisher-proxy repository (moved from kyma/components/event-publisher-proxy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `github.com/kyma-project/event-publisher-proxy` repository (moved from `kyma/components/event-publisher-proxy`)
```

> New images of our own components (eventing-controller, event-publisher-proxy) would require changes in charts inside eventing operator. Also changes in nats/jetstream would require chart updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New images of our own components (`eventing-controller`, `event-publisher-proxy`) would require changes in charts inside Eventing operator. Also, changes in `nats/jetstream` would require chart updates.
```

# Manifest operator

> Some components do not require any custom operator to install or upgrade (e.g. api-gateway, logging, monitoring) and use a base reconciler. With the operator approach, this task could be completed by a generic manifest operator. Custom resource for the manifest operator would contain information about chart location and overlay values. A single operator for multiple components can have some benefits in the in-cluster mode (better resource utilization) but would introduce challenges related to independent releases of charts and the manifest operator itself. Therefore a recommendation is that **all components will always provide the operator**. The manifest operator can be used as a template with a placeholder for your charts and default implementation (using the manifest library).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some components do not need any custom operator to install or upgrade (for example, API Gateway, Logging, Monitoring) and use a base reconciler. With the operator approach, this task could be completed by a generic manifest operator. Custom resource for the manifest operator would contain information about chart location and overlay values. A single operator for multiple components can have some benefits in the in-cluster mode (better resource utilization), but would introduce challenges related to independent releases of charts and the manifest operator itself. Therefore a recommendation is that **all components will always provide the operator**. The manifest operator can be used as a template with a placeholder for your charts and default implementation (using the manifest library).
```

# Component descriptor
## OCM

[OCM/CNUDIE](https://github.com/gardener/component-spec) stands for Open Component Descriptor and is used by Gardener. OCM intends to solve the problem of addressing, identifying, and accessing artefacts for software components, relative to an arbitrary component repository. By that, it also enables the transport of software components between component repositories. 

## Operator bundle from Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM)

[Operator bundle](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/creating-operator-bundle/#operator-bundle) is a container image that stores Kubernetes manifests and metadata associated with an operator. A bundle is meant to represent a specific version of an operator on cluster.

> Operator bundle contains ClusterServiceVersion resource that describes operator version and installation descriptor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operator bundle contains the ClusterServiceVersion resource that describes the operator version and installation descriptor:
```

> https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/creating-operator-manifests/#writing-your-operator-manifests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/creating-operator-manifests/#writing-your-operator-manifests`
```

> OLM provides also abstraction for operator catalog with release channels. What can solve the problem with modules discovery for users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OLM also provides abstraction for the operator catalog with release channels, which can solve the problem how users discover modules.
```

## Own solution

> OCM is a simple descriptor and requires additional structures to apply it for installing, configuring and updating Kyma modules (operators). OLM addresses release channels and operator catalogs but we need to adjust it to the model with operators running centrally and remote subscriptions. We need to decide if we build our own solution or reuse existing software. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OCM is a simple descriptor and requires additional structures to apply it for installing, configuring, and updating Kyma modules (operators). OLM addresses release channels and operator catalogs, but we must adjust it to the model with operators running centrally and remote subscriptions. We must decide if we build our own solution or reuse existing software. 
```

> We need the representation of the component in the control plane cluster. The idea is to create own custom resource that can have OCM component descriptor embedded. The ModuleTemplate custom resource would contain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need the representation of the component in the control plane cluster. The idea is to create our own custom resource that can have an OCM component descriptor embedded. The ModuleTemplate custom resource would contain the following:
```

- release channel
- CRD for the module (the one managed by module operator)

> - deployment of the operator (Kubernetes manifests / helm chart)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- deployment of the operator (Kubernetes manifests or Helm chart)
```

# Component submission process

> To submit a new component to Kyma you need to prepare a component descriptor (with all related resources). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To submit a new component to Kyma, you must prepare a component descriptor with all related resources. 
```

Component validation should be automated by governance jobs that check different aspects like:

> - operator CRD validation (e.g. status format)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- operator CRD validation (for example, status format)
```

- exposing metrics
- proper logging format
- ...

> Governance jobs should be owned by teams (no shared responsibility)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Governance jobs should be owned by teams (no shared responsibility).
```

> Apart from technical quality, Kyma components should fulfill other standards (24/7 support, documenting micro-deliveries, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apart from technical quality, Kyma components must fullfil other standards, such as 24/7 support, documenting micro-deliveries.
```

> # Operator based component management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Operator-based component management
```

> `kyma-operator` is a meta operator responsible for installing and updating component operators. It is similar to [Operator Lifecycle Manger](https://olm.operatorframework.io/), but it can work in 2 modes: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kyma-operator` is a meta operator responsible for installing and updating component operators. It is similar to [Operator Lifecycle Manger](https://olm.operatorframework.io/), but it can work in two modes: 
```

- central mode (managing thousands of clusters) 
- single cluster mode (local installation)

## Regular (local) component operators

> Each Kyma component has to provide the operator that manages the component lifecycle (installing, updating, configuring, deleting). The component provider (team) has to prepare one custom resource (ComponentDescriptor) that specifies how to install the operator (deployment yaml) and how to configure it (operator CRD, default values). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Kyma component must provide the operator that manages the component lifecycle (installing, updating, configuring, deleting). The component provider (team) must prepare one custom resource (ComponentDescriptor) that specifies how to install the operator (`deployment.yaml`) and how to configure it (operator CRD, default values). 
```

> The complexity of managing installation in many clusters or using configured release channels is handled by kyma-operator and component providers can ship regular kubernetes operators. Such regular operators are installed in the target cluster (where components should be installed). 

Reviewer: We should align on a common spelling for the most important terms - like "Kyma Operator" and "Manifest Operator" etc. Capitalize it? Format it as code like in line 126? No need to do that now, but we'll need it eventually.

```suggestion
The complexity of managing installation in many clusters or using configured release channels is handled by `kyma-operator`. Component providers can ship regular Kubernetes operators. Such regular operators are installed in the target cluster where components should be installed. 
```

## Central component operators

> `kyma-operator` can also work with other component operators deployed centrally. In this case, `kyma-operator` creates resources for component operators in the central cluster. The Reconciliation logic of the central component operator can find a remote cluster kubeconfig by convention or reference (e.g. annotation). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kyma-operator` can also work with other component operators deployed centrally. In this case, `kyma-operator` creates resources for component operators in the central cluster. The reconciliation logic of the central component operator can find a remote cluster kubeconfig by convention or reference (for example, annotation). 
```
Why "can"? Is it optional? Is it one possibility among others?

## Central vs local operator

> With Kyma 2.0 we moved component installation (`kyma-installer`) from the cluster to the central place (reconciler). Each component was installed by the dedicated reconciler from the Kyma control plane. For some components, it perfectly makes sense (they interact mainly with other central systems to enable some integrations), but for some components that interact only with internal cluster resources, such a setup is suboptimal. The local Kubernetes operator designed and implemented accordingly to the best practices should have minimal resource requirements (few MB of memory and few mCPU). Therefore for the cases where you don't need access to central services or external resources it is recommended to use a regular operator (not central). Such an operator is much easier to develop and maintain for the component team, as an operator lifecycle management is still handled centrally by `kyma-operator` (together with `manifest-operator`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Kyma 2.0, we moved the component installation (`kyma-installer`) from the cluster to a central place (reconciler). Each component was installed by the dedicated reconciler from the Kyma control plane. For some components, it perfectly makes sense because they interact mainly with other central systems to enable some integrations. But for some components that interact only with internal cluster resources, such a setup is suboptimal. The local Kubernetes operator designed and implemented according to the best practices should have minimal resource requirements (few MB of memory and few mCPU). Therefore, for the cases where you don't need access to central services or external resources, it is better to use a regular operator than a central one. A regular operator is much easier to develop and maintain for the component team, because the operator lifecycle management is still handled centrally by `kyma-operator` (together with `manifest-operator`).
```

> # Example local and central operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Example for local and central operators
```

> In this example 2 components are defined:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, two components are defined:
```

> - central operator for compass integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- central operator for Compass integration
```

> - local operator for eventing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- local operator for Eventing
```

![](assets/operators-example.drawio.svg)

# FAQ

## Do we still release Kyma? What is a Kyma release?
 

> Kyma release contains `kyma-operator` in the given version and component descriptors for release channels. As we can continuously release components and upgrade their versions in the release channels the Kyma release is not so important anymore, but it can be useful for the open-source community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every Kyma release contains the `kyma-operator` in the given version and component descriptors for release channels. As we can continuously release components and upgrade their versions in the release channels, the Kyma release is not that important anymore, but it can be useful for the open source community.
```

> ## Can I still use `kyma deploy` command to install Kyma in my cluster?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Can I still use the `kyma deploy` command to install Kyma in my cluster?
```

> Yes, but under the hood, `kyma-operator` will be used to install component operators. It is not decided yet if kyma CLI will install `kyma-operator` in the cluster or will contain `kyma-operator` code and run it locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, but under the hood, `kyma-operator` will be used to install component operators. It is not decided yet whether Kyma CLI will install `kyma-operator` in the cluster or will contain `kyma-operator` code and run it locally.
```

> ## I have a simple component with helm chart. Why do I need an operator?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## I have a simple component with a Helm chart. Why do I need an operator?
```

> With the operator you can fully control your component lifecycle and ensure that your component will be reconciled  to the desired state (watch component config and actual state).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the operator, you can fully control your component lifecycle and ensure that your component are reconciled  to the desired state (watch component config and actual state).
```

## I don't know how to write the operator. Can I use some generic operator for installing my chart?

> Yes. You can use [Operator SDK - Helm](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/building-operators/helm/) to generate it from your charts. You can create Helm based operator in a few minutes. If you want to better control the operator logic using [Operator SDK - Go](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/building-operators/golang/) or [Kubebuilder](https://book.kubebuilder.io/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes. You can use [Operator SDK - Helm](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/building-operators/helm/) to generate it from your charts. You can create a Helm-based operator in a few minutes. If you want more control over the operator logic, use [Operator SDK - Go](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/building-operators/golang/) or [Kubebuilder](https://book.kubebuilder.io/)
```
Not sure if I guessed the meaning of this sentence correctly.

> ## Why should I provide a central operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why should I provide a central operator?
```

> Consider providing central operator when:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider providing central operator in the following cases:
```

> - you deal with resources outside of Kyma cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You deal with resources outside the Kyma cluster.
```

> - you need access to external systems/resources with powerful credentials (that cannot be stored in the Kyma cluster)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need access to external systems or resources with powerful credentials that cannot be stored in the Kyma cluster.
```

## How to roll out a new module version in phases?

> Use release channels to push the new version in the rapid channel first and after some time you can push that version to the stable channel. Release channels are flexible and if you need to test the new version only on 1 cluster you can create a new release channel and assign only one cluster to that channel. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use release channels to push the new version in the rapid channel first. After some time, you can push that version to the stable channel. Release channels are flexible; and if you need to test the new version only on one cluster, you can create a new release channel and assign only one cluster to that channel. 
```

## Can I run multiple versions of central operator

> Yes. But you have to ensure that each module instance described by your module custom resource is reconciled (managed) by a single operator to avoid concurrent updates and unpredictable outcomes. You can achieve that by marking your custom resources with labels pointing to release channels in your module template. Then you can deploy one central module per release channel and update them independently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes. But to avoid concurrent updates and unpredictable outcomes, you must ensure that each module instance described by your module custom resource is reconciled (managed) by a single operator. You can achieve that by marking your custom resources with labels pointing to release channels in your module template. Then you can deploy one central module per release channel and update them independently.
```

Operator bundle contains ClusterServiceVersion resource that describes operator version and installation descriptor:
https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/creating-operator-manifests/#writing-your-operator-manifests

OLM provides also abstraction for operator catalog with release channels. What can solve the problem with modules discovery for users.

## Own solution
OCM is a simple descriptor and requires additional structures to apply it for installing, configuring and updating Kyma modules (operators). OLM addresses release channels and operator catalogs but we need to adjust it to the model with operators running centrally and remote subscriptions. We need to decide if we build our own solution or reuse existing software. 
We need the representation of the component in the control plane cluster. The idea is to create own custom resource that can have OCM component descriptor embedded. The ModuleTemplate custom resource would contain:
- release channel
- CRD for the module (the one managed by module operator)
- deployment of the operator (Kubernetes manifests / helm chart)

> # Component submission process

Reviewer 2: Regarding github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/9f3f3cee5077af7c9f7b1ccca5c4d3fc2ae6e371/concepts/modularization/README.md#component-submission-process:

I would argue that we could not centrally plan  and scale efficiently for submissions of components. 

I think we could follow similar methods like Linux APT Registries or Krew Plugin Registries for kubectl:

The idea is to have a “registry” of “trusted authors/authorities” per control plane. By default we ship the “Kyma Authority” for Modules created by the Kyma Team. Any time a custom Developer wants to add a module, they will distribute the Authority Key (e.g. a Digest or a Public Key for Signature Verification) and we can either install that Authority Key by default (if its a well known module) or we let users install it manually.

We could embed this with OCM as OCM supports multiple signatures per module and would allow us to check for different trusted sources at once without changing the format of our component bundles

# Modularization

Kyma provides Kubernetes building blocks. It should be easy to pick only those that are needed for the job and it should be easy to add new blocks to extend Kyma features. With the growing number of components, it is not possible to always install them all anymore. 

- [Independent releases of modules](#independent-releases-of-modules)
- [Dependencies between components](#dependencies-between-components)
- [Release channels](#release-channels)
- [Versioning](#versioning)
- [Manifest operator](#manifest-operator)

# Independent releases of modules

> With the growing number of components, it is hard to deliver features and fixes quickly and efficiently. Changes in manifests require a new release of Kyma. Operators (reconcilers) are tightly coupled and must be released together. In most cases, new component releases don't involve any API changes and could be delivered in a few minutes. 

Reviewer 3: Will we have some additional source that would list all currently supported components? 
Or will the customer be able to basically instruct our installer to install whatever he likes as long as the component implements the operators contract?

Author: Kyma operator will install anything that is available in the release channel assigned to the Kyma installation. This way user can balance between stability and availability of the new (sometimes experimental features). I can imagine that users can set up their own release channel with their own selection of components and it should also work (at least in the open-source world).

Reviewer 4: Does it mean that each team can release a component when it passes unit tests and static checks for example? When do we test kyma integration as a whole?

Reviewer 5: @kasiakepka I think we should have some kind of integration tests before deployment of new component version for all clusters on Stage and Prod landscape.

# Dependencies between components

> Components can depend only on core Kubernetes API or API extensions introduced by other components. Component operators are responsible for checking if the required APIs are available and react properly to the missing dependencies by reducing functionality or even reporting errors. Component owners are responsible for integration tests with their dependencies (with all versions supported in official release channels).

Reviewer 3: if a component requires another component to work correctly, what does `react properly` mean? If it just reports an error who would resolve this error? Is it the users job to then install the required component as well?

Author: If the API you require is not available you should fail (e.g. core kubernetes API, or istio virtual service). If your component can work without the API, but some features are not available (e.g. service monitor from monitoring) you should just skip it. We can discuss if it is useful to report such partial degradation in the status (and how).

# Release channels

> Release channels let customers balance between available features and stability. The number of channels and their characteristics can be established later. Usually, projects introduce between 2 and 4 channels. Some examples:

Reviewer 6: Would different release channels introduce different features?
Do you mean here that optional modules would be enabled on different channels? (i.e Keda )
Or rather that some beta feaures may be available earlier in some release channels ( for early adopters )

Author: Yes - new features/modules could be tested in the rapid channel. I will update the concept.

- [GKE](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/release-channels)

> - [Next Cloud](https://nextcloud.com/release-channels/)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- [Nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com/release-channels/)
```

TO DO:
- how release channels are implemented (one config file or folder in some repository / config maps)
- what component versions are included in the channel 
- governance model - requirements for promoting version to the stable channel (hotfix should be possible anyway)

> # Versioning

Author: Thanks - I will update the description to add more examples. I didn't include component sources in the versioning description because they are indirectly referenced by the component images. It doesn't matter if it is kyma component (like api-gateway) or 3rd party component (like prometheus). We need just a container image reference in the component deployment (chart or something else that operator can apply). Let me extend the versioning with some examples to be more clear.

> # Modularization

Reviewer 8: I propose to include already on this level as a requirement a unified adoption of microdelivery process , it should be included in module governance. 

What I'd like to achieve is to keep consistency across all modules in terms of adoption of one microdelivery process for all modules that also result in:
- having same branching strategy
- handling vulnerabilities 
- same approach for maintenance releases (including security fixes)

All together it will let us have unified support model (together with the operational awareness introduced by @tobiscr).

Having freedom in adoption of microdelivery process could result in a significant effort needed later for release management and support (unification will not be possible on that level).  CC @Sawthis

Reviewer 5: CC: @kasiakepka @dekiel

> # Modularization

Reviewer 3: One thing missing in this concept is imho if/how we organise the source code:
Currently, all kyma components reside in the mono repo at `kyma-project/kyma`. Will this be changed?
Technically it is not necessary to split the existing code base, but for new additional components we should avoid integrating them into the existing repo. Lets describe how such component could find a way into the release channels, and how the current testing approach could be modified to include them.

Author: I added the section to the concept about it.

Kyma provides Kubernetes building blocks. It should be easy to pick only those that are needed for the job and it should be easy to add new blocks to extend Kyma features. With the growing number of components, it is not possible to always install them all anymore. 

- [Independent releases of modules](#independent-releases-of-modules)
- [Dependencies between components](#dependencies-between-components)
- [Release channels](#release-channels)
- [Versioning](#versioning)
- [Manifest operator](#manifest-operator)

# Independent releases of modules

> With the growing number of components, it is hard to deliver features and fixes quickly and efficiently. Changes in manifests require a new release of Kyma. Operators (reconcilers) are tightly coupled and must be released together. In most cases, new component releases don't involve any API changes and could be delivered in a few minutes. 

Reviewer 4: Does it mean that each team can release a component when it passes unit tests and static checks for example? When do we test kyma integration as a whole?

Reviewer 2: I think this would happen whenever a change is promoted into a channel. THat means as soon as a version gets upgraded in a channel, the tests need to be retriggered for that channel and reject the update in case of failure

# Dependencies between components
Components can depend only on core Kubernetes API or API extensions introduced by other components. Component operators are responsible for checking if the required APIs are available and react properly to the missing dependencies by reducing functionality or even reporting errors. Component owners are responsible for integration tests with their dependencies (with all versions supported in official release channels).

**Example:**

If the API you require is not available you should fail (e.g. core kubernetes API or istio virtual service). If your component can work without the API, but some features are not available (e.g. service monitor from monitoring) you should just skip it and continue to deploy other component resources. 

# Release channels

> Release channels let customers balance between available features and stability. The number of channels and their characteristics can be established later. Usually, projects introduce between 2 and 4 channels. Some examples:

Reviewer 8: How release channels will be tied What's new articles published on SAP Help. Currently we have really big issue with communication about planned changes to our customers. With Modules it will be even greater.  

As a customer I need to get a heads up about planned changes a few weeks before its released so that  I can prepare for the change. Currently we barely can provide such info (indeed we give a heads up but without concrete date it will be available).

Author: With release channels, you can see what component versions are in the rapid channel and you can even use test your application with the component version coming from other channel. And the idea behind independent releases of modules is that it is no more big bang releases with multiple components and significant changes.

- Operator CRD ([api/config/crd](https://github.com/kyma-project/manifest-operator/tree/main/api/config/crd))
- Operator deployment ([operator/config/manager](https://github.com/kyma-project/manifest-operator/blob/main/operator/config/manager/manager.yaml))
- Operator image (docker image in gcr)
- Component CRDs ([installation/resources/crds](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/main/installation/resources/crds))
- Component deployment ([resources](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/main/resources))
- Component images (docker images in gcr)

Component operators should be deployed continuously. Operators should support all versions that are currently available in all release channels. It is up to the component owner to decide how they manage different component versions inside operator (operator per version or single operator supporting multiple versions).

## Simple versioning

> Simple versioning of component resources could be achieved by packaging component CRDs and charts into component operator binary (or container image). This way released operator would contain CRDs and charts of its components in the local filesystem. 

Reviewer 2: Considering the need for compatibility I think it would not be easily possible this way to manage multiple versions for upgrade/downgrades between release channels or updates in an existing channel. (since the operator image would only know one chart at a time, If we start packaging multiple charts into the repository i imagine it will get quite messy and also somehow defeat the purpose of the chart already including a version, we can see this already in the current reconciler with istioctl being included in multiple versions in the image).

I think in the end we could think of completely decoupling the module version from the operator delivery. If developers change the chart they could use the normal compatibility in semver and on major upgrades also break compatibility for an operator in a given version. 

Then we could track the operator versions and component versions in two different release channel groups: one for "classic" SKR delivery (containing the kyma runtime modules, e.g. charts or resources) and one for "control-plane" delivery (containing the operators and CRD definitions) Using this we could end up with 2 release trains, with the control-plane delivery being decoupled from the SKR delivery: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/community/e7ff25edb3519ab1cc28ec0dee91578c67768c3d/concepts/operator-reconciliation/assets/channel_based_versioning.png

A component-operator could then "choose" how many versions and which versions to support for a given component without having to be imaged or versioned separately. This also makes the possibility of a security can easier since we will not have to rebuild images for fixes in the charts third party images.

Reviewer 2: +1 that charts conceptually belong close to the delivery of an operator, still I think we should avoid having to package multiple versions of the same chart / data with different settings (see the Istioctl inclusion in the image on the current reconciler, this gets messy because you also have to triage security findings for these individually). That you would then have to package in the image. 

Regarding the verification of the charts: I suggest to anyhow introduce a BOM that is able to track digests of images and charts independently. Maybe we should consider something like https://github.com/gardener/landscaper/blob/master/docs/concepts/InstallationBlueprintRelationship.md#componentdescriptor-reference
This would also solve the security aspect as you are able to verify the integrity of channels or components through their respective part in the BOM (by comparing the digests) We will anyhow need this to ensure channel integrity / package integrity

# Manifest operator
Some components do not require any custom operator to install or upgrade (e.g. api-gateway, logging, monitoring) and use base reconciler. With the operator approach, this task could be completed by a generic manifest operator. Custom resource for manifest operator would contain information about chart location and overlay values. A single operator for multiple components can have some benefits in the in-cluster mode (better resource utilization) but would introduce challenges related to independent releases of charts and the manifest operator itself. Therefore a recommendation is that all components will always provide the operator. Manifest operator can be used as a template with a placeholder for your charts and default implementation (using manifest library).
# Component submission process
To submit a new component to Kyma you need to prepare:
- Component operator custom resource definition (CRD in YAML)
- Operator deployment and component config (YAML)

Component validation should be automated by governance jobs that check different aspects like:
- component status format 

> - support for release channels

Author: Ideally yes. But in the real world, such an upgrade could cause some instability. One way to mitigate such risk is some smoke tests for the channel that can show serious problems. But I think we should go more into monitoring and canary deployment direction.

> - support for release channels

Reviewer 2: Agreed. I think we should define a Canary Environment and maybe even a Testing Channel that is equivalent to the current "main" installation then to allow for testing.
